+++
title = "Talk:Boids"
description = ""
date = 2016-04-22T23:34:26Z
aliases = []
[extra]
id = 12757
[taxonomies]
categories = []
tags = []
+++

== Racket code ==
Why is the Racket code published off-site? Can we move it to the wiki or is it copyrighted? [[User:Fwend|Fwend]] ([[User talk:Fwend|talk]]) 23:33, 22 April 2016 (UTC)

== Task specification ==
Should the task define specific rules the birds follow, so implementations won't be too arbitrary? --[[User:Ledrug|Ledrug]] 18:40, 7 January 2013 (UTC)

:: There are several variants of the three rules of boids movements, but the original ones should be enough for this task. -[[User:Bearophile|bearophile]] 23:29, 7 January 2013 (UTC)

:Yep. We really do need something concrete to implement rather than a vague link to a Wikipedia article that does not seem to have any pseudo-code to follow. --[[User:Paddy3118|Paddy3118]] 19:58, 7 January 2013 (UTC)

:: I agree the Task specification is incomplete and needs improvements. (I think a Boids task is good for RosettaCode because the code needed for such simulation is not too much long, and it's a kind of task not overrepresented in RC.) -[[User:Bearophile|bearophile]] 23:29, 7 January 2013 (UTC)

::: This Python version is readable and it doesn't have obstacles. http://code.activestate.com/recipes/502240-boids-version-11/  Removing the GUI code it's about 120 lines of non-comment Python code. Is this too much for a RosettaCode Task?
::::It's not very good practice to rely on code as an explanation for an entire task. Explaining things in English, pseudocode, or diagrams/tables is preferred. Not everybody can read Python (including me). --[[User:Mwn3d|Mwn3d]] 04:27, 8 January 2013 (UTC)

::: A few things would be helpful:
:::# What each bird would consider its ''local'' flock;
:::# How much does individuals in a local flock affect a bird's steering (how close is crowded, by how much does a bird adjust its current heading to fit into its local flock, etc)
:::# You asked for the birds to fly from left to right and avoid obstacles, again how much does each weigh in each bird's steering consideration.
::: I haven't looked into it carefully, but I think these should be mandated by the task for consistent implementations.  Also it's questionable if a console text representation has enough spatial resolution to make the simulation workable, but that's a separate issue. --[[User:Ledrug|Ledrug]] 07:16, 8 January 2013 (UTC)

Huh. The output of that Racket implementation just crashes my browser about half a second in. It's been a while since I've come across such a total JS implementation bug. There ''might'' be a bug in the Racket code — I've not checked, to be honest — but the browser keeling over in response is really wrong. –[[User:Dkf|Donal Fellows]] ([[User talk:Dkf|talk]]) 12:31, 25 January 2014 (UTC)
: It worked find for me.  Like you said, no matter what the Racked output does, the browser should not crash, so I think we should focus the blame on your browser for now (what is it, BTW?). --[[User:Ledrug|Ledrug]] ([[User talk:Ledrug|talk]]) 00:25, 26 January 2014 (UTC)

== Python code for cave generation ==
The board was generated by this simple Python code:

```python
from array import array
from math import hypot

nx = 85
ny = 16
background = '.'
foreground = '#'

mat = [array("c", background) * nx for _ in xrange(ny)]

def add_circle(mat, (cx, cy, r)):
    for y in xrange(cy - r, cy + r + 1):
        for x in xrange(cx - r, cx + r + 1):
            if hypot(cx - x, cy - y) <= r:
                if x >= 0 and x < len(mat[0]) and y >= 0 and y < len(mat):
                    mat[y][x] = foreground

for c in [(14, 2, 8), (nx / 2, ny / 2, 3), (nx - 17, ny - 2, 9)]:
    add_circle(mat, c)

for row in mat:
    print row.tostring()
```

