+++
title = "Template talk:Notmylang"
description = ""
date = 2014-09-14T22:09:31Z
aliases = []
[extra]
id = 10254
[taxonomies]
categories = []
tags = []
+++

==Notmylangend==

I just noticed that there isn't a [[:Template:Notmylangend]], despite what this template says. The appropriate template is [[:Template:Mylangend]], backwards as that might seem.

I wonder if it would be possible -- or even necessary -- to create Notmylangend as a redirect to Mylangend...? Or perhaps it might make sense to copy Mylangend to Notmylangend, just to be consistent. -- [[User:Eriksiers|Erik Siers]] 20:51, 7 August 2011 (UTC)
:I just created the template. Either one should work and I don't foresee any changes to the {{tmpl|mylang}} system that would break userpages that use {{tmpl|mylangend}} instead. I guess it's nice to follow patterns. --[[User:Mwn3d|Mwn3d]] 02:27, 8 August 2011 (UTC)

== Add altname support ==

Can/should this be modified to support altnames like {{tmpl|mylang}} does? I have a proposed version at [[User:Dchapes/Notmylang]] that just copied the relevant parts from mylang (it can be seen in use on my [[User:Dchapes|user page]]). That has the side effect of changing the language links generated by notmylang from …/wiki/Langname to …/wiki/Category:Langname which is probably, but may not be, desirable. &mdash;[[User:dchapes|dchapes]] ([[User talk:dchapes|talk]] | [[Special:Contributions/dchapes|contribs]]) 17:19, 14 September 2014 (UTC)
:The link difference shouldn't matter as long as the language pages are set up right--/wiki/Langname should always redirect to /wiki/Category:Langname. Go ahead and change it if you want. Not too many people use this template anyway so even if it ends up wrong we can bring it back without breaking too much. --[[User:Mwn3d|Mwn3d]] ([[User talk:Mwn3d|talk]]) 20:38, 14 September 2014 (UTC)
::Okay, I went ahead and changed it. It makes sense to me that mylang and notmylang should operate the same but I'm hesitant to change templates :)
::Of the 15 pages currently using the template, five currently have broken/red links due to this change:
::*[[User:Rldrenth|One]] should be fixed by them using COBOL vs Cobol (I'll drop a note on their talk page).
::*Three are due to [[:Category:Brainfuck]] not redirecting to [[Brainfuck]] (the category is [[:Category:Brainfuck]]). This could be fixed either by a new redirect or those people changing to <nowiki>{{notmylang|Brainfuck|foo}}</nowiki> (or <nowiki>{{notmylang|Brainfuck|foo|Brainfuck}}</nowiki> if that's what they prefer).
::* [[User:Sandrobilbeisi]] appears to mention languages with no wiki pages so the links likely were already "red".
::*Finally, [[User:Eriksiers]] references specific implementations rather than langages. I don't know what the best option in that case is.
::&mdash;[[User:dchapes|dchapes]] ([[User talk:dchapes|talk]] | [[Special:Contributions/dchapes|contribs]]) 22:09, 14 September 2014 (UTC)
